# SQLCipher
> SQLCipher is a sqlite3 with encryption based on openssl. SQLCipher just have some `sql` statements used to perform encryption from a  function perspective and is a sqlite3 rebuilt from a underlying perspective,contrast to sqlte3.


### Introduction

SQLCipher is a SQLite extension that not a plugin but extend its function(i,e. extend [sqlite API](https://github.com/mapbox/node-sqlite3/wiki/API)),because  SQLCipher must rebuild SQLite to generate a node file  named by `node_sqlite3.node`  integrated with encryption functionality. SQLCipher will **encrypt the entire database file** when enabling encryption function.

### Support Platform
 * C/C++
 * Obj-C
 * QT
 * Win32/.NET
 * Java
 * Python
 * Ruby
 * Linux
 * Mac OS X
 * iPhone/IOS
 * Android
 * Xamarin.IOS
 * Xamarin.Android
 * Electron



### Usage

```javascript
var SQLite3 = require('sqlcipher').verbose();
var sqlite = new SQLite3('./test-win.db');

sqlite.run("pragma key = 'secret'");
sqlite.run("pragma cipher = 'aes-256-cbc'");//optional, default cipher be eqaul to 'aes-256-cbc'
```

Note: SQLCipher is just a sqlite3 with encryption functionality.Thus,your application with SQLCipher either encrypt database file or not.The first sql statement should be `pragma key = '...''` after successfully connecting a database or creating a database,if your application enable encryption function as you expected

### Install
```bash
npm install sqlcipher
```

Running above command gonna compile SQLCipher related to current environment that command has run. By default,There have three system environment supported with SQLCipher,as bellow.

- windows
- mac
- linux

You can compile SQLCipher for specific environment via params when installing. [Specific Platform Installation](https://github.com/zhouchangsheng/sqlcipher/wiki/%E5%AE%89%E8%A3%85)
```bash
npm install sqlcipher --target=`target environment version` --arch=`system bits` --dist-url=`url for downloading target environment` --runtime=`target environment`
```


### Encryption Algorithm

SQLCipher supports a lot variety of enctryption algorithms with encryption based on openssl.You may pick out one from [collections](https://github.com/zhouchangsheng/sqlcipher/wiki/%E5%8A%A0%E5%AF%86%E7%AE%97%E6%B3%95) containing algorithms or do nothing to use default

* aes-128-cbc
* aes-192-cfb
* aes-256-cbc(默认)
* cast
* rc4

### API
There are some basic api for SQLCipher,such as set encryption key, specify the encryption algorithm, replace the secret key. Of course, if you need to improve the sqlite performance under encryption environment, there are more detailed [api](https://www.zetetic.net/sqlcipher/sqlcipher-api/) that is the `sql` statement) to optimize the project.

1.Set Key
```bash
pragma key = 'secret';
```

2.Encryption Algorithm

```bash
pragma cipher = 'aes-128-cbc';
```

3.Change Key

```bash
pragma rekey = 'aes-128-cbc';
```

